DOCSP-40777 replace documents page (#50)
mongodb/docs-java-rs: source/write-operations/replace-documents.txt

> .. _java-rs-write-replace:

Author: I'm aware of this: i'm making a ticket to do cleanup later and create landing pages/create a toc. The reason why we're doing it in a seperate ticket is so that we can do all the TOC/organizational work in one PR rather than having it be scattered and potentially causing merge conflicts.

> .. _java-rs-write-replace:

Reviewer: Sounds good, I will note that for future reviews on this work!

=================
Replace Documents
=================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference

.. meta::
   :keywords: code examples, write, replace, change

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to use the {+driver-short+} to replace
a document in a MongoDB collection by performing replace operations.

A replace operation replaces one document in a MongoDB collection.
You can perform a replace operation by using the ``replaceOne()`` method.

Sample Data
~~~~~~~~~~~

The examples in this guide use the ``sample_restaurants.restaurants`` collection
from the :atlas:`Atlas sample datasets </sample-data>`. 

To learn how to create a free MongoDB Atlas cluster and load the sample
datasets, see the :ref:`<java-rs-getting-started>` tutorial.

> .. include:: /includes/reactor-note.rst

Reviewer: S: move this note out of the "sample data" section and instead put it into the overview

Replace Operation
-----------------

> You can perform a replace operation in MongoDB by using the ``replaceOne()``
> method. This method removes all fields except the ``_id`` field from the first

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can perform a replace operation by using the ``replaceOne()`` method
on a ``MongoCollection`` instance. This method removes all fields except the ``_id`` field from the first
```

> method. This method removes all fields except the ``_id`` field from the first
> document that matches the search criteria. It then inserts the fields and values
> you specify into the document.

Reviewer: S: combine sentences

```suggestion
method. This method removes all fields except the ``_id`` field from the first
document that matches the search criteria, then adds the fields and values
you specify to the empty document.
```

Required Parameters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``replaceOne()`` method requires the following parameters:

- A **query filter** document, which determines which documents to replace. For
  more information about query filters, see the 
  :manual:`Query Filter Documents section </core/document/#query-filter-documents>` in

>   the MongoDB Server manual. 

Reviewer: S: instead of linking here, create a link to the future specify query page

> - A **query filter** document, which determines which documents to replace. For
>   more information about query filters, see the 
>   :manual:`Query Filter Documents section </core/document/#query-filter-documents>` in
>   the MongoDB Server manual. 
> 
> - A **replace** document, which specifies the fields and values to insert in the new 
>   document.

Reviewer: S: try not to start list items with articles if possible ([style guide](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/style/lists/#:~:text=Avoid%20using%20articles%20(a%2C%20an%2C%20the)%20to%20start%20list%20items.))
```suggestion
- **Query filter** document, which determines which documents to replace. For
  more information about query filters, see the 
  :manual:`Query Filter Documents section </core/document/#query-filter-documents>` in
  the MongoDB Server manual. 

- **Replacement** document, which specifies the fields and values to insert in the new 
  document.
```

Replace One

> -----------

Reviewer: S: rename this section to "Replace Example"
The subheadings on this page going from replace operation to replace one doesnt make a lot of sense

To replace a single document in a MongoDB collection, call the ``replaceOne()`` method
and pass the document you want to add. Then, pass the ``replaceOne()`` method to the static

> ``Mono.from()`` method from the ``Mono Publisher``. The ``Mono Publisher`` is a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``Mono.from()`` method from the ``Mono Publisher`` class. The ``Mono Publisher`` is a
```

> ``Publisher`` implementation from the Project Reactor library. In {+java-rs+}, you must use

Reviewer: S: could we make a source constant for "Project Reactor library"? It could save some effort in spellchecking etc. 
maybe `prl`

Reviewer: Or even just project reactor

> ``Publisher`` implementations to control how data is transmitted in your
> application. To learn more about ``Mono``, see `Mono <https://projectreactor.io/docs/core/release/reference/#mono>`__ in the Project
> Reactor documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``Publisher`` implementations to control how data is transmitted in your
application. To learn more about the ``Mono`` class, see `Mono <https://projectreactor.io/docs/core/release/reference/#mono>`__ in the Project
Reactor documentation.
```

The following example uses the ``replaceOne()`` method to replace the fields and values of a
document with a ``name`` field value of ``"Pizza Town"``. The ``replaceOne()``

> method replaces the original document with a document that has a ``name`` field
> value of ``"Mongo's Pizza"``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
method replaces the original document with a document that has a ``name`` field
value of ``"Mongo's Pizza"`` and a ``cuisine`` field value of ``"Pizza"``.
```

.. code-block:: java
   :copyable: true

>     Mono.from(restaurants.replaceOne(
>       eq("name", "Pizza Town"),
>       new Document().append("name", "Mongo's Pizza")
>       .append("cuisine", "Pizza"))).block();

Reviewer: S: indentation looks off

```suggestion
    Mono.from(restaurants.replaceOne(
        eq("name", "Pizza Town"),
        new Document().append("name", "Mongo's Pizza")
            .append("cuisine", "Pizza"))).block();
```

Reviewer: In general, try to run a formatter on all code examples in an IDE before pasting

Modify Replace Behavior
-----------------------

> The ``ReplaceOptions`` class contains methods that modify

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``ReplaceOptions`` class provides methods that modify
```

> The ``ReplaceOptions`` class contains methods that modify

Reviewer: S: add a sentence before this paragraph that describes the topic broadly
"You can optionally modify the behavior of the ``replaceOne()`` method by passing an options parameter."

the behavior of the ``replaceOne()`` method. To use the ``ReplaceOptions``
class, construct a new instance of the class, then call one or more of its methods
to modify the replace operation. You can chain these method calls together.
To modify the behavior of the replace operation, pass the class instance and

> chained method calls as the second argument to the
> ``replaceOne()`` method.

Reviewer: I: arent the query and the replacement doc the first two params?
```suggestion
chained method calls as the last argument to the
``replaceOne()`` method.
```

Author: good catch

> You can use the following methods in the ``ReplaceOptions`` class
> to modify the ``replaceOne()`` method. All methods are optional.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the following methods in the ``ReplaceOptions`` class
to modify the ``replaceOne()`` method.
```

.. list-table::
   :widths: 30 70
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Method
     - Description

>    * - ``bypassDocumentValidation(Boolean bypassDocumentValidation)``

Reviewer: S: I think you should present these methods without including the parameter type. Instead, you can describe the parameter in the description

```suggestion
   * - ``bypassDocumentValidation()``
```

Author: hey, the reason I added parameter type was because in all the other tables in the other write pages (insert, update, etc), we have the parameter type, so keeping consistency; it was also suggested as a edit in the past when I had not included the parameter type in the method. do you think that keeping it in the method makes it unclear?

Reviewer: Oh, I didnt know that was a convention you had started in this docs set. I think you should remain consistent, meaning that you can disregard feedback related to this point

     - | Specifies whether the replace operation bypasses document validation. This lets you 
         update documents that don't meet the schema validation requirements, if any 
         exist. For more information about schema validation, see :manual:`Schema
         Validation </core/schema-validation/#schema-validation>` in the MongoDB

>          Server manual.

Reviewer: Example of adding the param to the description

```suggestion
         Server manual.
       | This method takes a parameter of type ``Boolean``.
```

   * - ``hint(Bson hint)``
     - | Sets the index for the operation as a ``Bson`` value. 
         For more information, see the :manual:`hint statement </reference/command/update/#std-label-update-command-hint>`
         in the MongoDB Server manual.

   * - ``hintString(String hint)``
     - | Sets the index for the operation as a ``String`` value.
         For more information, see the :manual:`hint statement </reference/command/update/#std-label-update-command-hint>`
         in the MongoDB Server manual.

   * - ``let(Bson variables)``
     - | Specifies a map of parameter names and values. Values must be constant or closed
         expressions that don't reference document fields. For more information,
         see the :manual:`let statement
         </reference/command/update/#std-label-update-let-syntax>` in the
         MongoDB Server manual.

   * - ``upsert(Boolean upsert)``
     - | Specifies whether the replace operation performs an upsert operation if no 
         documents match the query filter. For more information, see the :manual:`upsert
         statement </reference/command/update/#std-label-update-command-upsert>`
         in the MongoDB Server manual.

> Example
> ~~~~~~~

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modify Replace Example
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
```

The following code uses the ``replaceOne()`` method to replace a document in the

> ``restaurants`` collection. It also sets the ``upsert(true)`` option
> to bypass document-level validation. Because the ``upsert`` option is
> set to ``true``, the driver inserts a new document if the query filter doesn't 
> match any existing documents.

Reviewer: I: this description is inaccurate
```suggestion
``restaurants`` collection. It also sets the ``upsert(true)`` option
so that the driver inserts a new document if the query filter doesn't 
match any existing documents.
```

.. code-block:: java

    Mono.from(restaurants.replaceOne(
      eq("name", "Food Town"),
      new Document().append("name", "Food World")
      .append("cuisine", "Mixed"),

>       new ReplaceOptions().upsert(true))).block();

Reviewer: S:fix indentation

Return Value
~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``replaceOne()`` method returns an ``UpdateResult`` 
object. The ``UpdateResult`` type contains the following properties:

.. list-table::
   :widths: 30 70
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Property
     - Description

>    * - ``getMatchedCount()``
>      - | The number of documents that matched the query filter, regardless of
>          how many were replaced.
> 
>    * - ``getModifiedCount()``
>      - | The number of documents modified by the replace operation. If a replaced
>          document is identical to the original, it is not included in this
>          count.
> 
>    * - ``getUpsertedId()``
>      - | The ID of the document that was upserted in the database, if the driver
>          performed an upsert. Otherwise ``null``.
>          
>    * - ``wasAcknowledged()``
>      - | Returns true if the replacement was acknowledged.

Reviewer: I: These are presented as methods based on the parentheses
S: remove parentheses. Also, make the descriptions all the same part of speech

```suggestion
   * - ``getMatchedCount()``
     - | The number of documents that matched the query filter, regardless of
         how many were replaced.

   * - ``getModifiedCount()``
     - | The number of documents modified by the replace operation. If a replaced
         document is identical to the original, it is not included in this
         count.

   * - ``getUpsertedId()``
     - | The ID of the document that was inserted into the database, if the driver
         performed an upsert. If no document was inserted, this value is ``null``.
         
   * - ``wasAcknowledged()``
     - | An acknowledgment of the replacement.
```

Author: To my knowledge, these are methods: https://mongodb.github.io/mongo-java-driver/5.1/apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/client/result/DeleteResult.html#getDeletedCount()

I kept the parentheses but changed the descriptions.

the ``replaceOne()`` method.

.. include:: /includes/reactor-note.rst

Sample Data
~~~~~~~~~~~

The examples in this guide use the ``sample_restaurants.restaurants`` collection
from the :atlas:`Atlas sample datasets </sample-data>`. 

To learn how to create a free MongoDB Atlas cluster and load the sample
datasets, see the :ref:`<java-rs-getting-started>` tutorial.

Replace Operation
-----------------

You can perform a replace operation by using the ``replaceOne()``
method on a ``MongoCollection`` instance. This method removes all fields except the ``_id`` field from the first
document that matches the search criteria, then adds the fields and values
you specify to the empty document.

Required Parameters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``replaceOne()`` method requires the following parameters:

- **Query filter** document, which determines which documents to replace.

.. TODO: add link to read query filters 
.. For more information about query filters, see :ref: <java-rs-query-filters>.

- **Replace** document, which specifies the fields and values to insert in the new 
  document.

Replace Example
---------------

> To replace a single document in a MongoDB collection, call the ``replaceOne()`` method
> and pass the query filter document as well as the replace document. Then, pass the ``replaceOne()`` result to the static

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To replace a single document in a MongoDB collection, call the ``replaceOne()`` method
and pass the query filter document and the replace document as parameters. Then, pass the ``replaceOne()`` result to the static
```

value of ``"Mongo's Pizza"`` and a ``cuisine`` field value of ``"Pizza"``.

.. code-block:: java
   :copyable: true

    Publisher<UpdateResult> replacePublisher = restaurants.replaceOne(
            eq("name", "Pizza Town"),
            new Document().append("name", "Mongo's Pizza")
                    .append("cuisine", "Pizza"));
    Mono.from(replacePublisher).block();

Modify Replace Behavior
-----------------------

You can optionally modify the behavior of the ``replaceOne()`` method by calling
an options method. The ``ReplaceOptions`` class provides methods that modify
the behavior of the ``replaceOne()`` method. To use the ``ReplaceOptions``
class, construct a new instance of the class, then call one or more of its methods
to modify the replace operation. You can chain these method calls together.
To modify the behavior of the replace operation, pass the class instance and
chained method calls as the last argument to the
``replaceOne()`` method.

You can use the following methods in the ``ReplaceOptions`` class
to modify the ``replaceOne()`` method.

.. list-table::
   :widths: 30 70
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Method
     - Description

>    * - ``bypassDocumentValidation(Boolean bypassDocumentValidation)``

Reviewer: S: since the parameter label is just a label, can you shorten so that the table columns aren't so lopsided?
```suggestion
   * - ``bypassDocumentValidation(Boolean bypass)``
```

         expressions that don't reference document fields. For more information,
         see the :manual:`let statement
         </reference/command/update/#std-label-update-let-syntax>` in the
         MongoDB Server manual.

   * - ``upsert(Boolean upsert)``
     - | Specifies whether the replace operation performs an upsert operation if no 
         documents match the query filter. For more information, see the :manual:`upsert
         statement </reference/command/update/#std-label-update-command-upsert>`
         in the MongoDB Server manual.

Modify Replace Example
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following code uses the ``replaceOne()`` method to replace a document in the
``restaurants`` collection. It also sets the ``upsert(true)`` option
so that the driver inserts a new document if the query filter doesn't 
match any existing documents.

.. code-block:: java

    Publisher<UpdateResult> replacePublisher = restaurants.replaceOne(
            eq("name", "Food Town"),
            new Document().append("name", "Food World")
                    .append("cuisine", "Mixed"),
            new ReplaceOptions().upsert(true));
    Mono.from(replacePublisher).block();

> Return Value
> ~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer: S: move this up a level
```suggestion
Return Value
------------
```

> The ``replaceOne()`` method returns an ``UpdateResult`` 
> object. The ``UpdateResult`` type contains the following instance methods:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``replaceOne()`` method returns an ``UpdateResult`` 
object. Use the following methods from the ``UpdateResult`` type to access
the corresponding information:
```

.. list-table::
   :widths: 30 70
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Property
     - Description

   * - ``getMatchedCount()``
     - | The number of documents that matched the query filter, regardless of
         how many were replaced.

   * - ``getModifiedCount()``
     - | The number of documents modified by the replace operation. If a replaced
         document is identical to the original, it is not included in this
         count.

   * - ``getUpsertedId()``
     - | The ID of the document that was inserted into the database, if the driver
         performed an upsert. If no document was inserted, this value is ``null``.
         
   * - ``wasAcknowledged()``
     - | An acknowledgement of the replacement.

> .. Additional Information
> ----------------------

Reviewer: S: it is ok if this header is on the page with no content
```suggestion
Additional Information
----------------------
```
